Hey guys, thanks for checking out this
Bible teaching. Um, every week we
release a podcast that corresponds to
the sermon. It's like a little bit of a
deeper dive where we hit some things
that didn't make it into the sermon,
some theological concepts. We talk about
things that are going on in our culture
and how to think about them from a
biblical perspective. We call that
podcast Live Free. An episode releases
every Monday that corresponds to the
sermon. If you would like to check out
Live Free, just go to the Lakeoint
YouTube channel and look for the podcast
tab there. We'll see you at Live Free.
Now enjoy this Bible teaching.
>> I didn't realize how much I wasn't in
tune with my spiritual needs. Didn't
grow up with faith. Never talked about
religion or God.
>> My dad was an atheist. He grew up
Muslim. However, walked away early on in
his life. So I felt like it was pretty
important just for our family unit to to
follow something versus nothing. We
ended up meeting somebody. He told us to
take a look at Lake Point. We checked it
out. One message, Pastor Josh had us all
close our eyes and ask, "If you are here
to commit yourself to Jesus, raise your
hand." That day, I felt the urge to put
my hand up. And next thing we knew, we
were like, "We're committing to this
church. We love it."
>> Started going to Rooted. What stood out
for me was that opportunity to talk
about the Bible, to understand the word,
and to really develop a relationship
with Jesus. After reading week one, I
went, "This is what I've been looking
for." And as each week progressed, my
faith grew. I realized it's my
relationship with God. It's my
connection with him. That was the
turning point for me. I started Rooted.
What I ultimately ended up finding was a
community. You need some people to be
around you to help push you forward in
in faith.
>> Our relationship is the healthiest it's
ever been. And I think that's because we
do have such a healthy relationship with
God that helps us have a deeper
connection, too.
>> I feel like a better father, you know,
at home. feel like a better leader
because it is just this sense of freedom
that allows me to really live my life.
My name is Matt.
>> My name is Michelle
>> and this is how Jesus changed our lives.
>> Come on, man. Let's give it up. Come on,
man. Amen. Praise God. Amen. Amen. Amen.
All right, man. Hey, this is going to be
awesome. I just uh you just need to know
uh you're in for one. Here we go. You
guys got your Bibles? Um turn over to
Luke chapter 21 and then put your finger
in Matthew chapter 24. Luke 21, Matthew
24. Real quick, um before we get into
the text today, um we would be insane
not to celebrate um what happened last
week um at Easter at Lake Point. So,
real quick, let me uh let me tell you
what happened last week. It's going to
be great. Uh first of all, we last week
we crammed um in one weekend 53,000
people into our campuses last week at
Lake Point. That was awesome. That's
great. You know, golf, golf, golf.
That's great. But here here's the deal.
Here's why. Honestly, I that's not the
big deal to me because um Jesus, we're
going to read this verse today. Jesus
did not say go into all the world and
make big crowds. He said go into all the
world and make disciples. And at the end
of the day, I just I want to say this
over and over and over again when Christ
returns. By the way, that's what we're
talking about today. It will not matter
if you attended a Lakeoint service in
person. That's not going to matter one
bit. What will matter is did you cross a
line of faith and begin to be a disciple
of Jesus Christ. So, the number that
matters to me from last week, this is
insane. Number that matters to me from
last week is this. In one week, we had
22,772
people cross a line of faith and
indicate a first time decision to follow
Christ. Come on, man. Let's celebrate
it. Amen. Amen. Amen.
Amen. That's right. And uh if you're one
of those people, you just need to know
you this is the first week of the rest
of your life. It's going to get on you.
You just put a miracle in motion and
God's not just going to change your
life. He'll change your legacy and your
lineage because of something you did in
2026 to bend your knee to the lordship
of Jesus. It's going to be awesome.
Okay. Now, here's what we're going to do
today. We are in week whatever of a
series called investigating Jesus where
we are preaching through the Gospel of
Luke. And here here's what this is. This
entire series is a dude named Luke that
was a medical doctor that got radically
saved and then he started following
around primarily the Apostle Paul. And
then he had a one more. This this guy
Luke, he had a one more um named
Theophilus. He writes the book of Luke
and the book of Acts as two. It's a it's
one story, two-part compendium. So it's
like it's like Avengers Infinity War and
Endgame. And for real, that's not even a
joke. People laugh every time I do that.
I don't mean it as a joke. For real. And
so Luke and Acts are that it's Luke
writing to his one more that doesn't
know Jesus yet. And what he says in the
beginning of Luke, Luke chapter 1, is he
says, "I have carefully investigated all
these things concerning Jesus." So,
here's all this book is, man, this is
why I love it. Is Luke answering all the
questions that his unsaved buddy had
about Jesus to help his buddy know
Jesus. So, what we're doing during this
series is we're doing that. We're just
answering all the questions. So, the
question we're answering today, heads
up, is when will Jesus return and what
will he do then? Now, I need I need to
give you disclaimer on this sermon. You
need to know for real, for real, this
sermon is going to be different than any
sermon I've ever preached uh at Lake
Point. I will read I probably spent more
hours studying for this sermon than
maybe any sermon I've ever preached. I
will read more verses than I think any
sermon I've ever preached before. And
here's why. Here's why I'm doing that. I
will read as much Bible as I actually
preach this week. Here's why I'm doing
that. Because the book of Hosea says,
"My people perish for lack of
knowledge."
And what you need is not some guy's
opinion. You don't need That's not what
you need. What you need is to go, man,
what does the word of God say about this
stuff? So, heads up, it's going to be a
little different. It's going to be a
little heavier. It's going to be a
little richer. It's going to be a little
thicker. This is not a sermon I would
preach at most churches, but Lake Point
Church is not most churches. Okay, so
let's get in. Let's get in. Okay, now
let me let me set it up like this.
I'm fighting off something from last
week. Just roll with me. Um, when I am
preaching every week, there is a clock
right in front of me. You're going to be
able to see it for about two seconds.
That is a countdown timer. It's a big
countdown timer. And so even when I'm
looking at you in my peripheral vision,
every second what I'm seeing is second
by second my time counting down. And it
begins at one number and counts down.
And when that clock gets to zero, it
flips from white and it turns red. And
every second that I'm preaching, every
single second, I'm seeing that and it's
reminding me that my time is limited.
And so what that means is that I don't
have time to get distracted. I can't get
off task because I have a thing that I
have to accomplish. And that my time is
limited. It's not limitless time. And
what it means is that every second that
I'm teaching, I'm not allowed to take it
for granted because this moment matters
because eventually my moments are done.
And when that clock counts down to zero
and flips to red, then a transition is
going to take place and we will
transition out of this room and we'll
transition into another room. Luke 21
and Matthew 24, their corresponding
passages. I'll get to this in a second.
And what Jesus Christ does is he is
explaining to his disciples before he
goes to the cross that all of human
history is on a countdown timer. that
all of human history is in fact divided
into three epochs, eras, or some
theologians will say eons,
that you are in the end of the second
age, and that eventually there is a
countdown timer that will flip. And what
this means is that this age will come to
an end. And it means that you are not
allowed that we are not allowed as
disciples of Jesus Christ to take any
moments for granted. We can't get
distracted. Our time is not limitless.
It is limited. And at the end of this
age, a transition will take place.
Whether you believe it or not, whether
you accept it or not, whether you think
it or not, it will take place exactly as
Jesus Christ tells us it will take
place. And our job is to be ready for
that transition. Now, what I'm going to
do here in the next few minutes is we're
just going to walk right through Luke 21
and Matthew 24. And what you're going to
see is that you are in the middle of the
second age in human history and you are
on a countdown timer. Okay, so we're
going to get right at it. We're going to
read a whole lot of Bible and let's just
Here we go. Okay, so here we go. Age
number one, Jesus said that age number
one that has already come to an end, but
it's important you understand it. Age
number one, it was the age of Judaism.
Let me begin by reading this. This is uh
Luke 21 starting in verse 5. It says
some of his disciples were remarking
about how the temple was adorned with
beautiful stones and with gifts
dedicated to God. But Jesus said, "As
for what you see here, the time will
come, this is really, really important.
Listen close. When not one stone, now as
I read this, you're going to notice
Jesus is going to make very four very
specific predictions. Important that you
know this. He made these predictions in
33 AD." So he predicts the time will
come when not one stone will be left on
another. Every one of them will be
thrown down. Verse seven, teacher, they
ask, when will these things happen? And
what will be the sign that they're about
to take place? Here's prediction number
two. When you see Jerusalem surrounded
by armies, you will know that its
desolation is near. Then let those who
are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let
those who are in the city get out. Let
those who are in the country not enter
the city. For this is the time of
punishment in fulfillment of all that
has been written. How dreadful it will
be.
How dreadful it will be in those days
for pregnant women and nursing mothers.
There will be great distress in the land
and wrath is the word Jesus uses against
this people. They will fall by the sword
and they will be taken prisoners to all
the nations. Now let me teach for a
second. So in 33 AD, note this very
importantly. Jesus makes four specific
predictions. Number one, Jerusalem will
be surrounded and left desolate. He said
this in 33 AD. Number two, he didn't
just say the temple would be torn down.
He said not one stone would be left upon
another another. Number three, he said
that judgment, he actually specifically
used the word wrath. Wrath would fall on
the Jewish people in the city of
Jerusalem. And then number four, he
predicted in 33 AD that the Jewish
people would be scattered among the
nations. Now, let me explain what
happened in the next few years. When
Jesus would have said this, all of his
disciples would have been like, "Bro,
ain't no way." Because they were
standing on the Mount of Olives. I I
actually should show you a picture. They
were standing on the Mount of Olives
looking at the Temple Mount. As they're
looking at the Temple Mount, this is, by
the way, this is called the Olive
Discourse because Jesus is standing on
the Mount of Olives, his favorite place
to pray. And he's he gives the longest
answer to any question he ever gives in
his entire ministry about when he'll
come again. That's what he's doing right
here. Okay. So as he's standing on the
temple on on Mount of Olives looking at
the temple they would have been looking
at this massive temp bigger than
anything you can imagine. It was like
one of the the great wonders of the
world. This massive temple built by
Herod. It took it was massive 1,000 ft
by a,000 square ft. Stones made out of
stones larger than school buses. Some of
them upwards of 100 tons. I've got
pictures next to some of these things.
Massive construction project, eighth
wonder of the world. It It took years
and years, decades and decades to build
this thing. Think Great Pyramids of
Egypt. Think I30 bridge over Ray Hubard.
Yeah. Decades and decades to build.
This is what they were doing. Okay? And
so this is what they're looking at. Now,
the temple was beloved by all of the
Jewish people. And here's why. Now, I'm
going to can tie all these dots together
here in a second. We're going to get get
into it. The temple was beloved by all
those Jewish people. It was the center
of their religion. It was the center of
their national identity. It was the
place where they it was the intersection
point between uh heaven and earth,
between a holy God and sinful man. It
was the place where you would go where
the whole priestly system was set up so
that you as a sinful person could go to
the priest. Listen real close. You could
go to the priest and they would serve
listen as mediators between sinful
people and a holy God. The priestly
system was a medi a mediatory system and
then that's where all the sacrifices
were offered for the forgiveness of
sins. The blood of bulls, goats, rams,
lambs, all these things. So the temple
was the center of everything. Okay. Now
let's go a layer deeper. 37 years after
Jesus said says this in the year 70 AD a
dude named Titus who is a Roman military
leader he comes and listen he sieges the
city of Jerusalem both the Jewish
historian Josephus and the Roman
historian Tacazistus both record this he
sieges the city of Jerusalem that's a
military tactic where they go hey man
actually we're not going to bust in and
kill all of you what we're going to do
first is surround the city cut off the
supply lines and starve you and
dehydrate you. So Titus comes, sieges
the city, so people begin to starve and
people begin to dehydrate. Now remember
what Jesus said. Jesus said Jerusalem
would be what? It would be surrounded.
And then he said, "How dreadful for
pregnant women and nursing mothers." Why
did he say that? Because as they began
to get dehydrated, they can't, you know,
nourish their bodies. They can't feed
their babies. History records this is
exactly what happened. Now further he
keeps going. Eventually, they get in and
they sack the city. Now, interestingly,
if you've been around Lake Point for 3
or 4 months, 30 seconds to review, but
this is important today. Eventually,
when they go into the city, Titus
commands all of his soldiers, "Don't
touch the temple." Because he knew it
was a big deal and it was like filled
with gold and stones and all this stuff.
He was like, "Don't touch the temple."
History tells us one rogue soldier grabs
a torch and throws it through the window
of the temple and as he does it the
temple catches on fire. Now remember the
temple is full of stones and gold. So as
he does this temple catches on fire. One
historian tells us that the gold in the
temple it begins to melt and begins to
cascade down the stones inside the
temple and gets in the cracks in between
these massive stones in the temple.
Historians record at that point the
soldiers lose their self-control, get
inside the temple, and they begin to
watch this. They begin to pry apart
stone by stone every single stone that
made this thousand ft by,000 ft temple,
cast them over off the temple wall so
that they can ransack all the gold and
Jews jewels from the temple. And to this
day, if you ever go with me to Jerusalem
and you stand on the temple mount with
me, if you look over the western side of
the temple wall, I took this picture,
you will see this right here. And guess
what happened?
Not one stone
stands upon another. Listen to me. Not
one word that Jesus Christ predicts will
fall to the ground. Not one word. Heaven
and earth will pass away. My words will
never pass away. Exactly what Jesus said
would happen did happen. Now what Jesus
is saying in this passage, stay with me,
is he's saying that there was the end of
the era of Judaism. So at that point,
the old system of Judaism, the temple
system, the sacrificial system, the
priestly mediatory system, Jesus goes,
now that's done. Now for you
theologians, stay with me. Let's go a
layer deeper. If you go home and read
the book of Hebrews, Hebrews says that
everything that came before was, listen,
it was a type and a shadow of him who
was to come. So we could literally spend
hundreds of hours going through
everything in the temple and how
everything pointed forward to Jesus
Christ, the lamb of God, who had come to
take away the sins of the world. We
could do that. I'm just going to do a
little microcosm, okay? It's going to be
awesome. So remember, type in a shadow
pointing forward to him who was to come.
Okay? So remember what did the temple
do? It was the inter listen real close.
It was the intersection between heaven
and earth between a holy God and sinful
man. Number one. Number two it was a
place where you would go to find a
mediator that could mediate between you
sinful you and holy God. And number
three it's a place where you could go to
make sacrifices. The sacrifice of an
innocent lamb for the forgiveness of
your sin. Okay. Now listen. Check check
check check this out. At the center of
the temple is it was this one room. It
was called the holy of holies. Nobody
could go in there except one dude on one
day. I'm going to explain it. Inside the
holy of holies with the ark of the
covenant, that's where the present
what's what theologians call the
manifest presence of God dwelt in
highest density between between the
wings of these little golden cherubam on
top of the ark. All right, check this
out. Now, what separated that from
everything else was a um was a woven
curtain as thick as a man's hand that
separated the presence of God from the
people of God. Only one dude on one day
could ever go in there on the day of
atonement. The great high priest would
come and what he would do, check this
out. All this is going to blow your mind
here in a second. Just get get all the
dots together. He would take two goats.
He would take one goat on the day of
atonement. And they would confess all
the sins of the people of Israel on the
head of one of the goats. It was called
the scapegoat. And they would, as it
were, place all the sins on the head of
this substitutionary sacrificial animal.
And then they would just release it out
into the east or the west into the
wilderness. And it would walk away. And
it was God visually representing that as
far as the east is from the west, so has
he separated our transgressions from us.
Then check this out. Let's go a layer
deeper. They would take the other one.
It was called the Aazel. It's a whole
thing. And they would slay the other
one. They would take the blood of the
innocent slain animal and they would
sprinkle everything. One of the things
they would sprinkle as they walk in and
that high priest, he would sprinkle the
ark of the covenant. Now, check this
out. What was inside the ark of the
covenant? One of the things was the the
the broken copy of the ten commandments
that Moses broke on Mount Si. When the
people broke the commandments, he broke
those commandments. They put those
inside of the ark of the covenant. So,
check this out. What's happening is the
high priest, check this out, who's
mediating between sinful man and holy
God is covering the ark of the covenant
with the blood of a slain animal. So
that when God looked down from heaven,
he didn't see broken commandments. He
saw people covered by blood.
Years later, Jesus Christ would come and
John the Baptist would look at him and
he would say, "Behold the lamb of God
that takes away the sins of the world."
And he would come and he would be slain.
And the New Testament says that in a
sense, you and me have been sprinkled by
the blood of the lamb. So that when God
looks down on us, he doesn't see our
broken commandments. He sees the blood
of the slain lamb. And we're innocent in
his sight. Now listen, man. So check
this out. So when Hebrews says
everything was a type and a shadow of
him who was to come, that's why, again,
this is here's what this sermon is. It's
like one massive in-home Bible study.
Okay? So that that's a little different.
That's why when Jesus hangs on the cross
and he pushes up on his nail-pierced
hands and feet and he cries out, "It is
finished." Do you remember what
happened? The curtain was torn from top
to bottom in the temple. And that was
signaling now this era of Judaism, this
temple system is done. You don't need a
temple anymore because Jesus Christ is
the intersection between God and man.
You don't need a mediator anymore
because the Bible says now there is one
mediator between God and man, the God
man, Jesus Christ, who lives every day
to intercede for you by his blood. And
you don't need a sacrifice anymore
because he is the sacrifice to end all
sacrifices, the lamb of God that took
away your sins. That's the best news
we've ever heard. Okay, so this right
here, this signaled the end of the
system of Judaism. The era of Judaism is
done. It's vain religion. You don't need
it. I don't need it. Nobody needs it.
There's nothing there. Okay, that's
number one. Now, check this out. Jesus
says, "What come next?" Comes next. This
is where we are right now. This is the
in the mall. You are here sign.
Something comes. It's called Jesus calls
the time of the Gentiles. Check this
out. Actually, I'm going to show you on
the screen because I I want to show you
something. So, this is what he says.
Next verse. Jerusalem is going to be
trampled on by the Gentiles until and he
calls it the times of the Gentiles. Now,
I don't usually do this, but I'm going
to show you the Greek word because
there's one Greek word that gets
translated in multiple ways in English,
and it actually becomes confusing when
you're talking about this concept. So,
when he says time of the Gentiles, the
Greek word is ethnon. That's the Greek
word from which we get the English word
ethnicity or ethnicities. Now, that's
going to be really important. So, the
time of the ethnon, the time of the
ethnicities or the ethn ethnicities.
Now, what does this mean? What's that
mean? Now, Bible study, let me show you.
Here's how we figure this out. Let me
show you another place where the same
Greek word is used, but you don't know
it because the the translators use a
different English word. So, let's
connect a dot. Now, I'm going to take
you to a very, very familiar verse. This
is Matthew 28:19. Christians now call
this the great commission. Now, here
here's Matthew 28:19. You didn't know
this, but in Matthew 28:19, Jesus is
talking about this age that we are in,
the age of the Gentiles. Watch what he
says. He says, "All authority in heaven
on earth has been given to me.
Therefore, go and make disciples." Now,
in English, we translate it all nations.
Which is fine. But the Greek word is the
same word that Jesus uses in Luke 21
that gets translated Gentiles. Check
this out. All nations. In Greek, it's
tthnne. Same word. Tthne. Same word.
Baptizing them in the name of the
father, the son, and the holy spirit.
Teaching them to obey everything I've
commanded you. And surely I am with you
always to the very end of the what? the
very end of the
>> what age? The age of the Gentiles that
we are in right now. Now, what's Jesus
doing here? Now, actually, stay camera
shot. Stay right here. What's Jesus
doing here? Okay. Well, check this out.
Jesus says in this age, I'm going to
jump. He says, "All authority."
5'8 white guy. That's what I got to do.
He is. He says, "All authority." All
authority. Now, why does he say all
authority? Because now what Jesus is
saying is he's going, "Hey guys, now I
don't just have authority in one nation
among one people." He's going, "Now that
I've gone to the cross, the father in
heaven because of my suffering has
elevated me to his right hand. And now I
have all authority over every nation
everywhere. They've been given to me."
So he's saying now I don't got authority
just in Jerusalem or Israel. He's going
I have authority in Jerusalem, Judea,
Egypt. I have authority in the Sudan. I
have authority over China. I have
authority over Iran. I have authority
over Pakistan. I have authority over
Argentina. I have authority over Mexico.
I have authority over the United States.
All authority in heaven and earth has
been given to him over all nations. Ta
ethne all peoples. By the way, if you've
been around here for a minute, what we
say is that Lakeoint Church is a
movement for all people. That verse is
where we got that. A movement for all
people. Now, what's happening during
this second age that you're in, the time
of the Gentiles? Check this out from
Galatians 3. It says, "Now in this age,
there is neither Jew nor Gentile. There
is neither slave nor free, nor are there
male or female. For you are all, and I
want you to say this word out loud, you
are all
>> one in Christ Jesus." Now, notice it
says you are all one. It did not say you
are all the same.
It said this is important. You are all
one. It didn't say you're all the same.
Now I I So what he's doing is he's
reconciling people from every tribe,
tongue, nation, language and he's making
people who are different into one. Okay?
Now I I want to give an analogy of what
this is and then I want to move on and
talk about the third age and what's
going to happen next. So here's my
analogy if you've been around um for a
minute. So here's a picture of my
family. This is my family. I know it's
it's a good picture. I had to, by the
way, I had to change which picture I
used after last service because one of
my children who will remain nameless
told me they didn't like that picture.
Okay, so let me just So, so this is this
is the approved picture. Okay, now if
you've been around Lake Point for a
minute, if you're brand new here, just
looking at my family, you can probably
figure out we're not all the same. This
is this is we're an adopted family.
We've adopted three kids. Now, if you
look at my family, just notice
something. And it's not awkward for me
at all. If it's awkward for you, I don't
care. personal for me in my family.
Elelliana's a little lighter than
Felicity. Hudson's a little lighter than
Elelliana. I'm a little lighter than
Hudson. And and poor Jan's a redhead.
She barely shows up if it's sunny
outside in pictures. Okay, so I just
want to get that out there. By the way,
I love getting this in. Do you guys know
how you can tell the diff what's the
difference between a redhead and a
terrorist? You can negotiate with a
terrorist. Okay, let's keep going. It's
a joke. That's a joke. Jan's the best
ever. She's the best ever. That's not
one. Now, here's my point. Go go go go
back to the picture. So check this out.
We're not all the same, but I'm going to
tell you something about the We call
ourselves the Howard team. We're not all
the same. Can I tell you something about
us? We're all one. Not all the same, but
we're all one. Okay. Why? Now watch
this. Watch. How has that happened?
Through a covenant that we've entered
into with one another. Through a
marriage covenant and through three
adoption covenants, people who were
different became one. Got to tell you
something about Lake Point's like one of
the best things. This church is one of
the best representations of the time of
the Gentiles. Hey, if you just look
across all our campuses, Lake Family,
we're not all the same. We are all one.
We are all one. Okay? You look around,
man. You look around this church and we
got blue collar folks and we got white
collar folks. You know, we got black
folks who know how to have church.
They're fun. They talk back to me when
I'm preaching. They're my favorite
people to preach to. We got Hispanic
folks who know how to eat in Jesus name.
Come on, man. I'm coming to your house.
I'll come over to your house after you
come find me afterwards. We got y'all
folks. We got a bunch of young families
are reaching. That's fine. Y'all are
great. We got senior saints, by the way.
Let me just I I hear you. I hear you.
Let me just I just seriously I want to
say this. Hey, senior saints, we need
you.
It's for real. I just real deep in my
spirit. We're reaching tons of these
young families. Hey, senior saints, we
need you. Because all these young
families are reaching, they they've
never been a part of church. They
haven't followed Jesus. They're brand
new to Team Jesus. They're going to need
some spiritual parents with some tread
on their tires following Jesus for a
minute. They need people like you to get
up in their life and be spiritual
parents. We need you. And I know,
listen, I know what some of you are
saying is like, "Ah, I'm not perfect.
I'm not perfect." Listen, you don't got
to be perfect. You just got to be one
step better than us. That's all we need.
Okay? So, listen, we need you. We need
you. And here's what I also know.
There's a whole bunch of you who like
you're brand new. Last week was your
first week. You're looking around at all
these shiny little families and you're
going, "Ah, I could never fit in here. I
got too many issues." Let me help you
understand something. Here's all we are
at this church. We are one big
dysfunctional family that's been
redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ.
You're going to fit right in. You're
going to fit right in, man. Welcome.
Welcome to team Jesus.
In fact, let me just remind us of this.
There is only, you know, you got the
black, you black, white, Hispanic, all
the things. Listen, there's only one
color that matters is red. the red blood
of Jesus Christ that has ransomed people
from every tribe, tongue, nation, and
language and made us a kingdom of
priests unto God. Okay? Now, so that's
the time of the Gentiles. Now, here's
the question. What that we're answering
right now, what is going to signal the
end of the age that you are in, the time
of the Gentiles. Jesus answers that
question in Matthew 24:14. Check this
out. He says, "In this gospel," this is
one thing. I'm going to give you four
other signs here in a second, but this
is one thing. He says, "In this gospel
of the kingdom is going to be preached
in the whole world as a testimony." And
here's that same Greek word again
as a testimony to all nations, all
ethnos. And then the end will come. The
Now it says the end will come. The end
of what? The end of the second age, the
time of the Gentiles. So at the end, so
once this happens, when the gospel gets
to every tribe, tongue, nation, and
language, that will be one of the signs,
this age is over. Christ will return,
he's going to crack the skies, and all
kinds of awesome stuff's going to happen
that I talk about here in a second. Now,
if you're asking like, "Well, man, if
he's going to come back and wipe away
every tear from every eye, and I get to
see my loved ones again, I get to be
with Jesus forever." If you're like me,
sometimes I'm like, "Why is he so slow?
What's he waiting on?" 1 Peter 3 says
this. It says, "The Lord is not slow in
keeping his promise as some count
slowness, but listen, watch. But he is
patient, not wishing that any should
perish, but that all should come to a
knowledge of the truth." So, if you're
asking what's he waiting for, can I be
honest with you? If you don't know Jesus
yet, he's waiting for you.
If you got a if you got if you got a
prodigal son or a prodical daughter,
he's waiting for your prodigal son. your
prodigal daughter. He's waiting for
people in Russia and China and the Sudan
and Sri Lanka. He's waiting for them
because he didn't want anybody to
perish. He wants to bring as many with
him into into glory as he can. Let me
let me just put this in perspective and
let's get to age three. I read this
little study um from this Christian
missionary organization recently. Every
single day in Africa, the gospel is
exploding in Africa. Every single day in
Africa, 16,173
people cross the line of faith and bend
their knee to the lordship of Jesus
Christ. Every day. Every day. And after
every day. One day.
Now break that down. That means every
single day Jesus waits, he gets to bring
16,173
more people home with him. Watch this.
Every hour Jesus waits, if you do the
math, he gets to bring 673 more people
just from the continent of Africa home
with him.
Every minute Jesus waits, he gets to
bring 28 more people from Africa home
with him. What's he doing? He's not
slow. He's patient. He wants everybody.
He wants to bring all of us. So check
this out. What's happening is God has
given us one more day so that one more
person would have one more chance to
bend their knee and come to Jesus
Christ. That's what he's doing. Okay.
Now, Lake, I just want to remind us let
me just remind you cuz man, some of you
new here, you kind of don't know like
our our vibe. Let me just remind you
what I just said. That's why we
aggressively plant a hundred churches
and counting in the hardest to reach
least Christian cities in North America.
That's why we aggressively start
campuses. That's why we have 23 and
counting international partners in
nations all over the globe taking the
gospel to every tribe, tongue, nation,
and language. Let me speak very frankly
with you. That's why we give upwards of
$8 million a year away out of our doors
to missions. Why do we do that very
frankly? Check this out. Why do we give
away millions of dollars every year to
the spread of the gospel around the
globe when can I be really honest with
you? We're bursting at the seams here
and we seem to need it here. Why?
Because the gospel must go out to t all
people everywhere and Jesus Christ has
purchased those people by his blood on
the cross. It's our job to go get them.
Okay. So this that's what happens during
the second age, the age of the Gentiles.
Now number three, let me do this quick.
Third age, what will come at the end of
this age is something that the third age
um is the return of Jesus Christ uh the
judgment of the living and the dead and
he will return to make all things new.
Let me let me read it. Okay. Is what he
says. I think I'm on Matthew 24 now. Am
I in Matthew? No, I'm still in Luke 21.
At that time, they will see the son of
man coming in a cloud with power and
great glory. When these things, now I'm
going to tell you what these things are.
I don't want you to be scared. I do want
you to be prepared. When these things
begin to take place, I'm going to say
this how I memorized it as a little kid
in Sunday school in the KJV.
Stand up and lift up your head because
your redemption draweth nigh.
Now, some of you I I know this maybe
last week was your first week ever at
Lake Point and we're talking about the
end of the world and you're honestly
you're like, "Bro, y'all are you're
crazy." Like, honestly, you're like,
"You're crazy. I wish I had time to do
this. I don't have time to do it." I I
actually tried to get it in the sermon.
I had to cut it. I just one I would
point out to you literally every
worldview, philosophy, and religion that
has ever existed in the history of the
world has a view of how the world and
history will end. And they're all weird.
I'm serious. I'm serious. Even
naturalism and atheism, it's weird. The
whole universe collapses in on itself
and becomes a singularity. That's weird.
So, one, I'm just going to point out
everyone everywhere has a view of the
end in some way, and they're all weird.
Okay? But number two, if you're saying
I'm crazy, can I just gently press back
and say I think you're crazy because
because here, check check this out.
Jesus made, we read them today. Jesus
made five very specific predictions in
AD.33 before any of these things took
place. Let me remind you what he
predicted. In AD.33, Jesus predicted
Jerusalem would be surrounded and laid
siege, that judgment would fall on the
people of Jerusalem, that not one stone
of the temple would be left on top of
another, that the Jewish people would be
scattered among the nations, and that
people from Remember before I say this
last one, when Jesus made the prediction
that people from every nation would be
following Christ, there was not a single
disciple of his that was outside of
Jerusalem or Judea. And in AD33, he
predicted that people from every nation
would follow Christ. And five for five,
all five of those predictions took
exactly place. Listen to me. Not one
word the Lord Jesus speaks will ever
fall to the floor. Not one word. When he
speaks life, you believe it. When he
speaks salvation, you can trust that.
And listen, when he speaks judgment, you
better believe it. Every single word
that he speaks will take place. Listen,
if what Jesus said would happen did
happen, then listen. What he says will
happen is going to happen.
>> Okay? Now, let me just here's what I'm
going to do. I'm gonna finish the sermon
doing this. I'm going to rapidfire read
through. I'm just going to give you a
heads up. I'm going to do something at
the end of this section that even if you
thought some of the things I said so far
were weird, you're going to think
something I do at the end here in about
3 minutes is is two degrees more weird.
And it's going to freak it's a little
freak out a little bit. Just stay with
me, okay? Just stay with me. What I'm
going to do is rapid fire just walk
through what the signs Jesus said would
happen right before his return and then
we're done. Okay, so here we go. Matthew
24. Now here's what I'm doing. Matthew
24, Luke 21 and Matthew 24 are Siamese
passages. So, in the same way that I
preached a I preached this sermon in the
service before this, and then I preached
this same sermon, but there's some
things that made it into this sermon
that didn't make it into the previous
and vice versa. Same sermon, different
tellings. Luke 21 and Matthew 24,
they're Siamese passages. Same sermon,
different tellings. So, there's a few
different things there. So, that's why
I'm doing Matthew 24. Here's what he
says. As Jesus was sitting on the Mount
of Olives, the disciples came to him
privately. Tell us, they said, this will
happen. What will be the sign of your
coming and the end of the age? What age?
The time of the Gentiles. Here we go.
Jesus. Verse four. Jesus answered. Here
we go. Sign number one. Watch out that
no one deceives you. For many will come
in my name, claiming I am the Messiah
and will what? And will deceive many.
Sign number one is a rise in global
deception. Jesus says that as it get
closer gets closer to his return, there
will be more and more spiritual leaders
in the world that are, I'm just going to
say it, that are demonically empowered
to deceive people away from Jesus Christ
towards their quote unquote path or plan
of salvation. And Jesus predicts that
some of them will say that they are
following his way. Behold, I am the
Messiah. Behold, I point to the Messiah.
So, can I say this to you? Some of them
will use I'm gonna use that later.
Some of them will use this book to
deceive you. Can I remind you of
something? Just because somebody's got a
verse doesn't mean they're right.
Listen, Satan can quote Bible verses
too. He knows it better than you. This
is why, Listen to me. I'm pleading with
you. I'm pleading with I prayed this for
you. I This is why you got to read this
book. You got to read this book. I'm in
Revelation in my personal Bible reading
right now. What what Jesus says at the
beginning of the book of Revelation to
John Ana Alipatmas is he says, "Blessed
are those who read this book. Read." How
do you avoid being deceived as this time
comes closer? You read this book. Some
people, they listen to tons of podcasts.
Who cares? Read. Some people listen to
tons of sermons. That's great. Awesome.
Read. You got to every time somebody
said don't listen don't don't trust me
on everything. You got to read behind me
and go is what he said in that book. And
if it's in the book, accept it. You got
to accept it. If it's not in the book,
discard it. You got to read this book
and me measure everything against the
word of God. Listen, watch out. I'm
talking to you digital disciples online
especially. You got to watch out who you
listen to. There are people who will
hold this book in their hands and they
will twist it and they will tell you
things that your itchy ears want to hear
and they will be lying to you, deceiving
you. And Jesus says that will rise the
closer it gets to him. You got to read
this book. Watch out who you listen to.
Watch out who you watch. If you're
online, you're not a part of like watch
out what church you're a part of. There
are churches that use this book to
deceive people. And they are not
churches. In the words of Revelation 2
and 3, there's synagogues of Satan
leading people away from Jesus Christ,
deceiving him, and they will lead you
away. Take inventory of your circle. Do
this is why it matters. Who are you
running? Who's your squad? Do you have
people who when you listen, I'm like
you, man. My heart in the words of the
psalm is prone to wander. Lord, I feel
it. Prone to leave the God I love. When
you got that spot in your life, do you
got a circle around you who can pick you
up and bring you back so that you don't
depart and you are not deceived? That's
number one. Sign number one, global
deception. Number two, Jesus says, "You
will hear of wars and rumors of wars.
See to it that you are not alarmed. Such
things must happen, but the end is still
to come. Nation will rise against
nation, kingdom against kingdom. There
will be famines and earthquakes in
various places. All these things are the
beginnings of, and he uses this word
that's used both here and in 2
Thessalonians and in Romans chapter 8.
He says, "All these are the beginning of
the birth pain." Sign number two, there
will be an increase in global chaos.
Now, I know what people say. People see
that and they're like, "Man, Josh, but
there's always wars and rumors of wars.
There's never been a time in history
where there wasn't wars and rumors of
wars." You're right. But remember, he
said that he used the analogy of birth
pangs. Now, if you saw that picture of
my family earlier, you probably figured
out me and Jana have never done a
full-term pregnancy ever. We never done
that yet. But we did stay at a Holiday
in Express one time, so I've heard some
things. So, here's the deal. If you've
ever done the the pregnancy thing, you
know this. There's no birth pains when
you conceive. There's no birth pains in.
There's no birth pains in the first
month. There's no birth pains in month
three, month six. There's no birth pains
in month eight. But watch watch. When
you get closer to the ninth month, when
the pregnancy comes full term, there
comes a moment where those Braxen hicks
start. And now all of a sudden, watch
how it works. Why did Jesus use this
analogy? There's spasms happening inside
the body because something is trying to
come forth. It's not destruction. It's
birth. Something's trying to come forth.
And when those start, those contractions
start, they start far apart. At first
they're 15 minutes apart and then 10 and
then five and then three and then it's
boom boom boom boom. Jesus is saying
that the closer you get to the end wars
and rumors of wars global chaos that's
always taking place it'll just be boom
boom boom boom rapid fire over and over
what's happening cre Romans 8 creation
groans in eager expectation of the
revealing of the sons of God. Creation
is groaning like a pregnant woman's body
trying to bring forth something that was
foretold from of old. So the closer we
get to this time increase in global
chaos. Okay. Uh I lost my spot. Here we
go. Let's keep going. Verse 9. Next one.
Then you will be handed over to be
persecuted and put to death
and you will be hated. Listen. Listen to
me. Listen. You will be hated by all
nations because of me. One of the great
fears of my preaching ministry labeling
family is I have not done a good enough
job of preparing you to be hated by all
nations for the name of Jesus Christ.
This says you will be hated by all
nations because of me. Sign number
three, an increase in global
persecution. Now listen, some of us are
like, "Oh man, that's we're clearly not
towards the end because that's not a big
deal." Can I can I say something to you?
You need to bless God and thank him
every day that you were born in the
United States of America. You need to
bless God for that because listen, so
listen, some of you, you have been the
recipient of an undeserved grace from
heaven handed down to you. That's a
spiritual inheritance hardearned
that people in other countries are not
experiencing and have not experienced
for centuries. In fact, in America, we
don't know this that there have been
more martyrs for the Christian faith in
the last one century in the world than
in every previous century of church
history combined.
Let that sink in. This is so this this
sign this is happening in our day as
tolerance for Christianity is
decreasing. You know, we're getting
closer and closer to these times.
Listen, man. You don't understand. This
is happening all over the globe. We we
have church planters that we planted
their church. Dude in Canada, I'm not
going to say his name for legal reasons.
We planted their church that has
preached on this stage who because of
legislation that was passed in Canada in
the last two months, there are parts of
the Bible that if he preaches clearly,
he risks prison.
Okay, there I got a pastor buddy in
Seattle whose family was put on FBI
watch, whatever that little witness
protection thing because he's a clear
Bible teacher and there is an increase
in hostility to clear Bible teaching.
Dude's family's under threat of death.
Listen, I'm going to say something and
listen, I know it ticks people off when
I say stuff like this. I don't care. I
love you. Listen, be care be careful
what you watch. Be careful what you
read. You be careful how you vote. Some
of you are voting for things for
movements that when they get in power,
they consistently when they get in power
criminalize aspects of faithful
Christianity. You need to be aware of
what you're doing. Jesus predicted these
things would happen. Watch out what kind
of preaching and podcast you're
listening to. Is it milk that just does
this thing that's like, "Oh, you're
awesome and you need to feel awesome and
realize all your dreams." Is it milk or
is it meat that prepares you to be
content in the Lord Jesus Christ if you
are hated by everybody else? because you
have the only approval that matters, the
approval of heaven. You need to know
this. Are you ready for this? Okay.
Verse 10, last one. At that time, many
will, now listen, this is where I'm
going to do something a little freaky.
And if you think this is weird, just hey
man, just write me off and come back
next week. It'll be a lot more fun.
Okay, so verse 10. At that time, many,
listen close, will turn away from the
faith. So watch this. He says they're
going to turn people who said they were
on team Jesus are going to, you know
what? I'm not on team Jesus anymore.
Team Jesus is dumb. They're going to
turn away from the faith. They're going
to join another faith. I'm coming back
to that. They will betray and hate each
other.
Many false prophets will appear and
deceive many people. So, watch. I'm
going to start connecting dots. When we
get close to the end, people who are on,
it's called apostasy. There's a
difference between a lost person and an
apostate person. A lost person is like,
"Dude, I've never been on team Jesus."
An apostate person is somebody who once
said they were on team Jesus. Then they
took off the team Jesus jersey. They
walked across the battlefield. They put
on the team world jersey and now they
spend all their time shooting at team
Jesus. That's an apostate person. Second
Thessalonians talks about the same
thing. It talks about all throughout the
scriptures. It says the closer we get to
the end, there's going to be a bunch of
people who once said they were on team
Jesus that pull that jersey off and put
on a different jersey. False prophets
will appear and deceive many people.
false messiahs and false prophets will
appear and perform, watch this, great
signs and wonders. Just because somebody
uh does a miracle does not mean they are
from the Messiah. There are two spirits.
There's the Holy Spirit and there's
unholy spirits. Just because somebody
does a miracle, they that doesn't mean
they're empowered by the Holy Spirit.
They might be empowered by unholy
spirits. The Bible calls demons. And
Jesus says in the end there will be
religious leaders who you watch with
your eyes perform miracles and they are
not empowered by the Holy Spirit. They
are empowered by unholy spirits. The
Bible calls demons to deceive if
possible even the elect. See, I have
told you ahead of time. Sign number
four. This is where I'm I'm a get a
little weird. Global there will be a
global apostasy
caused by persecution and false
religion. Jesus, you just read it.
People are going to turn away from the
Christian faith to another faith. That
other faith will be led by a false pro
prophet that is demonically empowered to
perform miracles. Now, what I say right
here, I don't mean to scare you. I do
mean to be honest with you. Let me just
really quick and listen. If you think
I'm an idiot, that's fine. Just come
back next week. Test everything I say
against the word of God. It is really
I'll be honest. It's really hard for me
if I'm trying to connect dots. It's hard
for me not to at least wonder if some of
these things correspond with the rise of
global Islam. I just need to talk about
this real quick. And if you think I'm
nuts, just test what I say against the
word in the next 30 seconds. So check
this out. In John 16, Jesus says, "At
the end," watch. At the end, he says, "A
time is coming when they will kill you
and think they are offering service to
God." That's what Jesus said. Now, what
we've been doing in the American church
for the last 30 years is we've been
focusing on secular progressivism. Hey
man, atheism, big problem. secularism
problem. But watch this. According to
Jesus, the final boss like Bowser,
I don't know where that came from. The
final boss is not going to be in the
end, it's not going to be secularism. It
will Jesus said it. It will be another
religion that in that religion, they
will kill Christians. And when they kill
Christians, they will think they're
doing something holy and pleasing God.
Let's go a layer deeper. If you fast
forward to Revelation chapter 20, John
is given a prophetic vision of the
throne. Watch what he sees. I'm going to
have you say a word out loud. He sees in
the end the souls of those who had been
what? Who had been?
>> Because they refused to worship the
beast. I'll just simply point this out.
There is only one world religion whose
religion specifically prescribes
beheading
as the way to quote kill infidels. there
is only one religion. The Quran
specifically calls it striking necks.
That's the language it uses. So I will
simply point that out to you. That's
interesting. Now let me go one layer
deeper and this is where I'm I'm will
freak out a little bit more. So if you
start studying what's uh is Islamic
esquetology. Esquetology is a big
theological word. Escaton is the Greek
word that means last or end. Means study
of. So when I say esquetology it means
study of the end. If you study Islamic
esquetology, their view of the end
times, here's what they believe will
happen. They believe that there will be
a messianic prophetic figure that they
call the Madi.
The Madi will come and he's a messianic
leader that will usher in the Islamic
end times events that will result in the
entire world becoming a one world
Islamic nation state. Now, what I'm
going to do right here is I'm going to
just read to you the things that they
believe the Madi will do. And if you are
a Bibleaware Christian, as I read these,
every little red light is going to start
flashing in your head and you're going
to see why. This is what they believe
about him. He will emerge as a
charismatic messianic world leader
during global crisis chaos. He will take
control of the world and destroy
everyone who resists him. He will invade
many nations. He will rule and reign for
seven years. He will broker a seven-year
peace treaty with the Jews. He will
conquer Israel and massacre the Jews. He
will establish an Islamic one world
government headquartered in Jerusalem.
He will establish Islam as the only
acceptable worldwide religion. He watch
this. He will come on a white horse
with supernatural powers doing signs and
wonders. This is what they believe. He
will be assisted by a powerful prophet.
Now, if that sounds familiar, it's
because it is a precise description of
the biblical Antichrist.
The Islamic Mahi is the biblical
antichrist. We know the rider on the
white horse in Revelation 6 is the
Antichrist. They use that verse to
describe their mi. Now, I'm going to go
one layer deeper and then I'm going to
shut her down. Okay? If you go later
homework, and you read Ezekiel 38,
almost every theologian believes Ezekiel
38 is a an escat an end times prophecy
about what will happen right before
Jesus returns. It describes, don't give
me keys yet. Just stay with me. Don't
don't do it yet. It describes a group of
nations aligning against Israel to
attack Israel. And then the moment they
do that, Jesus going to crack the skies
and and do something awesome. I'll talk
about it in a second. Now, here's the
nations that Ezekiel 38 describes in
their in that times language. Gog, Mog,
Meshk, Tubal, Persia, Kush, Putmer, and
something called Beth, Torgam.
But those were the names of the nation
in the era when Ezekiel wrote. What are
the names of those nations, those
geographic regions today? What are the
nations that correspond? Well, here
here's who they are. Russia, Turkey,
Iran, Sudan, Libya, Turkey, and Turkey.
Can I point something out to you?
Even though that was written 1,200
years before the birth of Islam,
every single one of those nations except
one is an Islamic nation. The only one
that's not is Russia. And guess what?
The fastest growing religion is in
Russia? Islam.
I'm just saying. Now listen,
when that happens, and listen, you may
see that with your very eyes.
When that happens, in the words of
Jesus, do not be afraid. And let not
your hearts be troubled because greater
is he that is in you than anyone that is
in the world. And listen, listen,
listen, man. In that moment, what's
going to happen is all those nations
come to attack. And in that moment,
Jesus Christ will crack the skies. He
will descend. White horse, fire in his
eyes, sword out of his mouth, tattoo on
his thigh, King of Kings, Lord of Lords.
And the Bible says he will come down. He
will defeat all of the enemies of God.
And he will, watch this. He's going to
take his bride home. He's going to bring
us home. And he will wipe away every
tear from every eye. Neither shall there
be death, nor pain, nor crying anymore.
For the former things have passed away,
and behold, the new things have come.
That's going to happen to you. You're
going to be there when that happens,
man. So, what do you got to do? Okay,
here's here's where we're done. Here's
what you got to do. My my little I'm in
way in the red.
Don't leave. I hate hate when y'all do
that. Okay. So, you also must, you say
it out loud, you must
>> be ready. Hey y'all, let's be ready.
Let's be ready
because the son of man will come at a
what? at a hour. You don't expect him.
All right. So, what I got right here,
I don't have a watch, but I got a I got
a little clock on my iPhone and uh it
says 6:48. I don't care. Don't leave.
Okay. Says 648. 648. Now, I can tell you
what time it is. I can't tell you
anything about how this thing works. I I
don't know. I don't know how all the
little microns and chips and processors
and gears and I don't know how that
works. I don't know any of it. But I can
tell you what time it is. I don't know
how all the details work. going to tell
you how what time it is. Now, if you
start studying all this end time stuff
in the Bible, you can study Ezekiel 38,
Ezekiel 39, 2 Thessalonians. You can go
to the book of Revelation, Matthew 24,
Luke 21. You can do all the stuff. Let
me tell you, man, there's more details
and you're going to be able to get your
I I got halfway into studying this week.
I was like, this is in I want to call
Mike, bro, you come in and do it. You
come and do it. I don't want to do this.
Listen,
I can't tell you how all the details fit
together, but you know what? The only
thing that matters is you know what time
it is.
Only thing that matters. You know what
time it is. Can I tell you something?
The hour is late.
The hour is late
and it's time for you to be prepared for
what comes next. Now listen. Here's how
we're going to close this service. We're
not going to sing anything after this.
You saw us celebrate all these people
going through Rooted. Well, root it is
is a 10-week disciplehip experience.
Guess what it does? It prepares you to
walk as a faithful disciple of Jesus
Christ. 10-week disciplehip experience
teaches you how to get in the word of
God, study and understand the word of
God, how to pray, how to share your
faith, how to activate your spiritual
gifts, how to get free, all this stuff.
So, here's what I'm asking you to do. If
you have never been through rooted, I'm
asking you like with a pastoral
forcefulness,
I'm asking you to go through to sign up
to do this 10 week not till Jesus
returns. Well, maybe, who knows? Uh just
10 week disciplehip experience every
single member of our church. You need to
do it at least one time. Every single
one. So, you can do that in a couple
ways. You can scan this little Q grab
this dude right now. You can scan that
little QR code and you can register
right there. You can text the word, it's
going to be on the screen right here.
You can text the word rooted to 20411
and register. Service is over. We we can
keep your kids for a couple more
minutes. I'm asking you if you have not
been through Rooted to sign up for
Rooted 10E disciplehip experience
tonight before you leave to prepare
yourself to walk faithfully with Jesus
Christ as a disciple. That's your
homework. I'm done preaching. Have fun.
Peace.